# Documentation: The Analysis Codes
 

The Analysis Codes
==================

Author: MITRADIP DAS, NISER, Bhubaneswar

Compiler Information:
---------------------

The codes were compiled and tested using **clang++-5.0** using **c++14 standard** in **Linux 4.8** (Linux Mint 18.2). Compilation should be done for _rdf_1.cpp_ or _msd_1.cpp_ only as per the requirements.

File: cpp_include/libraries.h
-----------------------------

This file contains different libraries and generic functions used in the code. It references to different standard c++ libraries like _iostream_, _fstream_ etc. The generic functions contained are:

*   **std::string trim_left(const std::string& str):** This function left trims a string _str_.
*   **std::string trim_right(const std::string& str)**: This function right trims a string _str._
*   **std::string trim(const std::string& str):** This function trims a string _str_ using _trim_left_ and _trim_right._
*   **long int line\_skip(string file\_name,long int start_pos,long int lines):** This functions returns the position of the get pointer in file _file_name_ after skipping _lines_ lines starting from position of get pointer _start_pos_.

File: analysis.cpp
------------------

This file contains the codes for analysis of the system. It has different classes for different sections of the work. This file implements _cpp_include/libraries.h_.

*   **class atom:** Each object of this class represents an atom and it contains properties of atom like ID, name, Residue (molecule) ID and coordinates.

    *   **void show():** This is used to display the atom and the above properties.

*   **class frame:** This frame represents one frame from a run of MD simulation. It contains information of multiple atoms (implemented as a vector) and the corresponding box length of the frame.

    *   **long int read\_file(string file\_name,long int start_line):** This function reads the atoms from a PDB file _file_name_ generated using VMD (implementing PBC) with get pointer from _start_line_ till "END" is encountered. It returns the current position of the get pointer in the file (useful while implementing multiple frames).
    *   **void clear_all()**: Clear all the information present in a frame.
    *   **void set_box(double len):** Sets the box length to _len._
    *   **void show_frame():** Display all the data of the whole frame.
    *   **double calc\_dist\_pbc(long int id1,long int id2):** This function returns the distance between two atoms with _id1_ and _id2_ implementing PBC.
    *   **void get\_idx\_of(string src,std::vector<int> &v):** This functions stores all the index of atoms with name _src_ in referenced vector _v_.
    *   **void pair\_rdf\_fn(double start, double stop, double interval, const string pairs\[\], std::vector <array <double,2>> &rdf):** This function calculates the RDF of the current frame between atom types given in _pairs\[\]_. The variables _start, stop_ and _interval_ defines the start, end and mesh size of the RDF, in referenced vector _rdf._ The RDF implements PBC conditions and hence non-zero results exists only up to half of box length.

*   **class trajectory:** This class represents the trajectory of the atoms and implements a vector of frames in order to achieve this target.

    *   **long int read\_frames(string file\_name, long int st_pos, long int nframes, double boxl):** This function is used to read _nframes_ frames from a PDB file _file_name_ generated by VMD starting from file get pointer _st_pos_. This function also fixes the box length of each frame to _boxl_ and it return the current position of get pointer after reading the frames.
    *   **void pair\_rdf\_fn(double start, double stop, double interval, const string pairs\[\], std::vector <array<double,2>> &rdf):** This function gives the time average of RDF implementing _pair\_rdf\_fn_ from class frame.
    *   **double idx\_msd\_fn(int dt,const int idx):** This function calculates and returns the MSD of atom present in index _idx_ for a frame (or time) interval _dt_.
    *   **double type\_msd\_fn(int dt,const string src):** This function calculates and returns the MSD of an atom type _src_ over the whole ensemble for a frame (or time) interval _dt_. This implements the _idx\_msd\_fn_.
    *   **void type\_msd\_fn\_all\_dt(const string src,std::vector<array<double,2>> &v):** This function calculates the overall MSD for all possible frame intervals, 1 to (no of frames-1), for a given atom type _src_ and stores it in the reference vector _v_.

File: rdf_1.cpp
---------------

This file contains the _main()_ function demonstrating a sample RDF run.

File: msd_1.cpp
---------------

This file contains the _main()_ function demonstrating a sample MSD run.
